# 1. Measure-Theoretic Probability
In this chapter, measure-theoretic probability thoery is presented simply.
## 1.1 Events and Probability
##### Definition 1.1 ($\sigma\,\textendash\,algebra$)
Let $\Omega$ be an non-empty set. A $\sigma\,\textendash\,algebra$ $\mathcal F$ on $\Omega$ is a family of subsets of $\Omega$ such that:
1. The empty set $\emptyset$ belongs to $\mathcal F$.
2. if $A\in \mathcal F$ , then $\Omega \setminus A \in \mathcal F$.
3. if $A_1,\;A_2,\;\ldots$ is a sequence of sets in $\mathcal F$, then their union ${\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_i}$ belongs to $\mathcal F$.

##### Definition 1.2 (probability measure)
Let $(\Omega,\mathcal F)$ be a measureable space. Then a $probability\;measure$ $P$ on $(\Omega,\mathcal F)$ is a function$$P:\mathcal F\rightarrow[0, 1]$$
such that:
1. $P(\Omega)=1$;
2. if $A_1,\;A_2,\,\ldots$ is a pairwise disjoint sets belonging to $\mathcal F$, then$$\displaystyle{P\left(\;\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_i\right)=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}P(A_i)}$$
The triple $(\Omega,\mathcal F, P)$ is called a $probability\;space$.

##### Theorem 1.1 (increasing and decreasing sequence of sets)
Let $(\Omega,\mathcal F, P)$ be a probability space. Let $$A_1\subset A_2\subset A_3\;\ldots$$ be an increasing sequence of sets that belongs to $\mathcal F$. Then,$$\displaystyle{P\left(\;\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_i\right)=\lim_{n\rightarrow\infty}P\left(A_n\right)}$$
Similary, let$$A_1\supset A_2\supset\ldots$$
be an decreasing sequnce of sets that belongs to $\mathcal F$. Then,$$\displaystyle{P\left(\;\bigcap_{i=1}^{\infty}A_i\right)=\lim_{n\rightarrow\infty}P\left(A_n\right)}$$
^[pf) try to use the definition of measure.]
## 1.2 Random Variables
##### Definition 1.3 (random variable)
Let $(\Omega,\mathcal F, P)$ be a probability space. Then a $\mathcal F\textendash measureable$ function $\xi : \Omega \rightarrow \mathbb R$ is called a random variable.

##### Definition 1.4 ($\sigma\,\textendash\,algebra$ generated by a random variable)
- Let $(\Omega,\mathcal F,P)$ be a probability space, and let $\xi:\Omega\rightarrow\mathbb R$ be a random variable. Then, a $\sigma \textendash algebra$ generated by a random variable $\xi$ is defined to be a familiy of sets containing all sets of the form $\xi^{-1}(B)$, where $B$ is a Borel set in $\mathbb R$.
- Furthermore, let $\{\xi_i:i\in I\}$ be a familiy of random variables. Then a $\sigma \textendash algebra$ generated by $\{\xi_i:i\in I\}$ is defined to be a smallest $\sigma\textendash algebra$ that contains all sets of the form $\xi_i^{-1}(B)$, where $i \in I$ and $B$ is a Borel set in $\mathbb R$.

